Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be looking
at using the Chrome driver
with our project,
instead of the requests module.
We're not going to change what the project does,
we're not going to look at the new
Javascript page yet.
We're just going to use Chrome in here,
so that we get accustomed to using it,
and then we will move over
to the new page.
The first thing we have to do,
is to get the Chrome driver.
So we're going to do
from.selenium import webdriver.
We're no longer going to need requests,
because the webdriver is going to be doing the requesting.
So we no longer need that.
Next, we're going to actually
launch Chrome.
So we're gonna do,
say something like,
chrome equals webdriver.Chrome,
and here we're going to pass in
the executable path,
and that's going to be the path,
to where your Chrome driver programme is.
My case it's in,
usr/local/bin/chromedriver,
but if you put it somewhere else,
then make sure that you put the correct path there,
and if you're on Windows,
make sure that you put the .exe there,
if it's on the filename.
That will actually launch Chrome,
and it will give you this chrome variable,
that you can use to interact with it.
So now instead of making this request here,
to get the HTML content,
we're going to say, chrome.get,
and then we're going to go to http://quotes.toscrape.com.
Now instead of passing the page content,
to our QuotesPage object,
we're actually going to pass chrome,
because this Chrome instance,
is running the page.
So it has access to everything inside the page,
we no longer need to limit ourselves,
to only getting the HTML content.
We can actually pass the chrome object,
to the QuotesPage,
and use that chrome object inside
this other object.
For example, if we wanted to click around on things,
or stuff like that,
we can do that as long as we have
this chrome object.
If we pass in only the HTML content,
we wouldn't be able to click around in it,
because it will just be a string.
Now notice that we have some red lines here,
because we do have to instal selenium.
So just go over to your Python preferences,
and go to the project interpreter,
click the plus icon, and instal selenium.
Don't need anything else,
just selenium is okay,
and once it's installed,
those red lines will go away.
All right, that's your instal.
So we can close and press okay,
and the red lines go away so that's all good.
Now we go over to the quotes page,
because obviously this expects the HTML content
to be passed to it,
we need to change it,
so that it expects now the chrome instance.
So what we're going to do is,
we're going to remove this dependency from BeautifulSoup,
because we're no longer going to need that,
we're going to use chrome and selenium themselves,
to traverse the tree.
So we don't need BeautifulSoup,
and here we're going to say self.browser is browser,
and we're going to pass that in as the parameter.
Now this browser here,
we can use to find things within the page.
Selenium comes with that,
so as soon you have your browser,
you can do self.browser,
.find_elements_by_css_selector,
and then you pass in your selector there,
which is this right here.
Okay, now it's quite common when you have
a long string like this one,
to reformat it so that it is a little bit more readable,
and we're going to do it like this.
Okay, this is just a way to format this.
If you are using a formatter like Black,
which I recommend,
then it will do this for you,
but when you've got a longer list comprehension like that,
it's normal to divide it into two,
the thing that you want to put in the list,
and then your loop,
and then of course anything else,
and also the index.
Okay, now that we have our quotes,
and again, this is just going to do
the exact same thing,
only instead of using BeautifulSoup,
we're using the browser.
We do have to go over to the quote parser,
and make these changes as well.
Instead of select one,
what we're going to have to do,
is again, find element by css selector.
Notice that in the quotes page,
we did find elements by css selector,
here we only want one,
so it is find element by css selector.
Instead of .String,
it is .text if you are using selenium.
So yeah, we just copy that into here,
and into here, but we don't want the text,
and we also want multiple elements,
so it's gonna be once again,
find elements by css selector.
The thing that we're interacting with now,
when we use self.parent,
or when we get these tags,
is no longer a BeautifulSoup element,
because we're not using BeautifulSoup.
These things like self.parent,
are all selenium objects,
so they have different methods in them,
and they have different properties in them,
but overall their logic is the same.
You're searching for them,
and then you're getting the text out.
It's just the names that have changed a little.
If we go back to app.py,
and we run it,
you'll see that Chrome gets launched,
and we load the page,
and then we get our quotes down here,
just as we did in the previous application,
but now we do have Chrome here,
and it tells you that,
"Chrome is being controlled by automated test software."
Remember what I said in the first video of this section,
that the chrome driver is for testing websites,
that's why it tells you that it's being controlled
by automated test software,
even though we're doing nothing to do with testing,
but nonetheless, that's why selenium exists.
All right, so that's how you use the Chrome web driver,
you just ask it where you want to go,
and then we're going to be passing it over to our page,
and our parsers,
and we're going to be using the methods
that are defined inside selenium,
to find elements and extract their contents.
Now, because we have actual selenium objects,
and the actual browser,
we can click on things,
for example on drop downs.
So we're going to start looking,
into how to do that in the next videos,
as we move over to the new page
that uses Javascript.
I'll see you in the next video.